[nobohub] Initial contribution (#12937)
openhab/openhab-addons: bundles/org.openhab.binding.nobohub/README.md

# NoboHub Binding

> This binding controls the Glen Dimplex Nobø Hub using the Nobø Hub API v1.1 that can be found <a href="https://www.glendimplex.se/media/15650/nobo-hub-api-v-1-1-integration-for-advanced-users.pdf">here</a>

Author: Simplified a little and added the a .

![Nobo Hub](doc/nobohub.jpg)

It lets you read and change temperature and profile settings for zones, and read and set active overrides to change the global mode of the hub.

This binding is tested with the following devices:

* Thermostats for different electrical panel heaters
* Thermostats for heating in floors
* Nobø Switch SW 4

## Thermostats

Not all thermostats are made equal.

* NCU-1R: Comfort temperature setting on the device overrides values from the Hub, making the setting in the Hub useless.
* NCU-2R: Synchronizes temperature settings to and from the Hub.

## Supported Things

| Thing     | Thing Type | Description                                                                                     |
|-----------|------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| hub       | Bridge     | The Nobø Hub provides a gateway between your components, with the ability to organise in zones. |

> | component | Thing      | A component is a device, ie. panel heater or switch.                                            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| component | Thing      | A component is a device, i.e. panel heater or switch.                                           |
```

|------------------------------|--------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| activeWeekProfileName        | String             | The name of the active week profile        |
| activeWeekProfile            | Number             | The active week profile id                 |
| comfortTemperature           | Number:Temperature | The configured comfort temperature         |
| ecoTemperature               | Number:Temperature | The configured eco temparature             |
| currentTemperature           | Number:Temperature | The current temperature in the zone        |
| calculatedWeekProfileStatus  | String             | The current override based on week profile |

CurrentTemperature only works if the zone has a device that reports it (e.g. a switch).

### Component

| channel             | type               | description                              |
|---------------------|--------------------|------------------------------------------|
| currentTemperature  | Number:Temperature | The current temperature of the component |

Not all devices report this.

## Full Example

### nobo.things

```

> Bridge nobohub:nobohub:controller "Nobø Hub" [ hostName="192.168.1.10", serialNumber="SERIAL_NUMBER" ] {

Author: Fixed

	Thing zone 1                             "Zone - Kitchen"            	[ id=1 ]
	Thing component SERIAL_NUMBER_COMPONENT  "Heater - Kitchen"         	[ serialNumber="SERIAL_NUMBER_COMPONENT" ]
}
```

### nobo.items

```
// Hub
String	            Nobo_Hub_GlobalOverride         "Global Override %s"                <heating>       {channel="nobohub:nobohub:controller:activeOverrideName"}

// Panel Heater

> Number:Temperature	PanelHeater_CurrentTemperatur   "Setpoint [%.1f °C]"                <temperature>   {channel="nobohub:component:controller:SERIAL_NUMBER_COMPONENT:currentTemperature"}

Author: Fixed

```
// Hub
String	            Nobo_Hub_GlobalOverride         "Global Override %s"                <heating>       {channel="nobohub:nobohub:controller:activeOverrideName"}

// Panel Heater
Number:Temperature	PanelHeater_CurrentTemperature  "Setpoint [%.1f °C]"                <temperature>   {channel="nobohub:component:controller:184000000000:currentTemperature"}

// Zone
String	            Zone_ActiveWeekProfileName      "Active week profile name [%s]"     <calendar>      {channel="nobohub:zone:controller:1:activeWeekProfileName"}
Number	            Zone_ActiveWeekProfile          "Active week profile [%d]"          <calendar>      {channel="nobohub:zone:controller:1:activeWeekProfile"}
String	            Zone_ActiveStatus               "Active status %s]"                 <heating>       {channel="nobohub:zone:controller:1:calculatedWeekProfileStatus"}

> Number:Temperature	Zone_ComfortTemperature         "Comfort temperature [%.1f °C]"     <temperature>   {channel="nobohub:zone:controller:1:comfortTemperature"}

Reviewer: Can this be aligned with previous lines?

# NoboHub Binding

This binding controls the Glen Dimplex Nobø Hub using the Nobø Hub API v1.1 that can be found <a href="https://www.glendimplex.se/media/15650/nobo-hub-api-v-1-1-integration-for-advanced-users.pdf">here</a>

![Nobo Hub](doc/nobohub.jpg)

> It lets you read and change temperature and profile settings for zones, and read and set active overrides to change the

Reviewer: Please format README with one sentence per line.

Author: Fixed

      Switch    item=Zone_ActiveStatus
      Text      item=Zone_ActiveWeekProfileName           
      Text      item=Zone_ActiveWeekProfile           
      Selection item=Zone_ActiveWeekProfile           
      Setpoint  item=Zone_ComfortTemperatur minValue=7 maxValue=30 step=1 icon="temperature"
      Setpoint  item=Zone_EcoTemperatur     minValue=7 maxValue=30 step=1 icon="temperature"
      Text      item=Zone_CurrentTemperatur
      Text      item=PanelHeater_CurrentTemperatur
    }
}
```

## Organize your setup

Nobø Hub uses a combination of status types (Normal, Comfort, Eco, Away), profiles types (Comfort, Eco, Away, Off),
predfined temperature types (Comfort, Eco, Away), zones and override settings to organize and enable different features.
This makes it possible to control the heaters in many different scenarios and combinations. The following is a suggested
way of organizing the binding with the Hub for a good level of control and flexibility.

If you own panels with a physical Comfort temperature override, you need to use the Eco temperature type for setting
level used by the day based profiles. If not, you can use either Comfort or Eco to set wanted leve.

> Start på creating the following profiles in the Nobø Hub App:

Author: Fixed
